hi guys this is Sarah from sarah-jane
design and today we're going to learn
how to make an ordinary mug like this
into a wonderful little succulent scart
you'll need a dish like a cup or mug
potting soil water your succulents some
mesh material drill or a dremel tool
with a diamond bit gardening gloves if
you prefer not to get your hands dirty
safety goggles a mask and some ear plugs
okay so first what you're going to want
to do is drill a hole in the bottom of
your dish to ensure that the plants get
the drainage that they need and that the
roots don't rot but before we do that
let's suit up in our safety gear which
is most important goggles please so I am
wearing shatterproof lenses however I
like to have that little added layer of
protection earplugs we'll need this too
ear plugs plugs thank you
thank you
okay so once you have the hole drilled
what you're gonna want to do is add your
mesh now I've cut a nice about one and a
half by one and a half square already
and you'll just position it right over
the opening this way you won't lose any
soil when you rinse the water through so
now we'll add our soil this is a cactus
mix you can pick up at any local home
improvement store or garden center so
you want to fill it probably about
halfway but it really depends on the
size of your succulents and how large
the root ball is now if you're planting
a cutting you don't need to leave much
room at all because obviously you don't
have any roots but just make sure if you
do plan to cutting never to plant it
right after you cut it you want to make
sure that the end cauterizes so that the
plant won't rot a little trick my
husband okay so we have our soil I'm
going to take
some of these these are actually
cuttings that I got from a friend makes
this even less expensive
and really you also want to make sure
it's not sitting too high because if
I've done this made this mistake if your
plant sitting too high then when you go
to water it the soil will wash off the
top so we want to avoid that as well
let's do one of these I love these
little guys they're so geometric
I find that mixing different succulents
in one container with different colors
and shapes and textures really adds a
lot of interest
and you want to push in the plants
from under the leaves
with some firm pressure to make sure
that it's well seated
and then lastly what you're going to
want to do is water the plant really
wash through the water through the soil
out through the drainage hole and
that'll really kind of set everything
plus you wipe off all this ugly dirt
normally I would be using a hose but
here I'm not really set up for that so
so there you have it guys was super fun
and easy and simple and inexpensive way
to make a fun little succulent garden
especially when they're in a mug like
this thanks for watching and look for
more videos from sarah-jane design comm
on the link below buy something everyone
knows I like is being squared